README.md, before:

# Bank tech test

Week 10 of Makers Academy - practice take home tech test

## Specification

### Requirements

* You should be able to interact with your code via a REPL like IRB or Node.  (You don't need to implement a command line interface that takes input from STDIN.)
* Deposits, withdrawal.
* Account statement (date, amount, balance) printing.
* Data can be kept in memory (it doesn't need to be stored to a database or anything).

### Acceptance criteria

**Given** a client makes a deposit of 1000 on 10-01-2023  
**And** a deposit of 2000 on 13-01-2023  
**And** a withdrawal of 500 on 14-01-2023  
**When** she prints her bank statement  
**Then** she would see

```
date       || credit  || debit  || balance
14/01/2023 ||         || 500.00 || 2500.00
13/01/2023 || 2000.00 ||        || 3000.00
10/01/2023 || 1000.00 ||        || 1000.00
```

### User Stories

```
As a user
So that I can add money to my account
I would like to be able to make a deposit 

As a user
So that I can withdraw money from my account
I would like to be able to withdraw a specified amount 

As a user
So that I can keep track of my transactions
I would like to be able to print my bank statement showing deposits, withdrawls and dates

As a user
So that I know how much money I have
I would like my bank statement to show my balance after each transaction
```

## Self-assessment

Once you have completed the challenge and feel happy with your solution, here's a form to help you reflect on the quality of your code: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Q-NnqVObbGLDHxlvbUfeAC7yBCf3eCjTmz6GOqC9Aeo/edit

## Approach and Reflection

My first step to approach the test was to fully read through and understand what is being asked in the outline given. I think that converting the criteria into user stories can really help with this step of the process.

I also used this time to create a brief diagram of what classes and methods I think might be needed and what each one might require and do. For this tech test, I decided that a good start would be to have the Account class, with 3 methods: deposit (to add funds), withdrawal (to remove funds), and show_statement (to keep track of these transactions). I decided that I would approach the task by getting the core functionality down before refactoring and extracting each method into a class of their own.

![initial plan](./initial_plan.png "Initial Plan")

By creating the above plan, I was able to think through what I would want each of my methods to achieve and what they would need to do this. I initially expected 'deposit' and 'withdrawal' to have 1 argument each (the amount), but I soon realised that in order for the 'show_statement' method to have a date linked to a transaction, I would likely need to pass this as a second argument to the 'deposit' and 'withdrawal' methods. I decided that unless stated, I would have a default value of today's date.

Commit message:

updated plan for separating classes

README.md, after:

# Bank tech test

Week 10 of Makers Academy - practice take home tech test

## Specification

### Requirements

* You should be able to interact with your code via a REPL like IRB or Node.  (You don't need to implement a command line interface that takes input from STDIN.)
* Deposits, withdrawal.
* Account statement (date, amount, balance) printing.
* Data can be kept in memory (it doesn't need to be stored to a database or anything).

### Acceptance criteria

**Given** a client makes a deposit of 1000 on 10-01-2023  
**And** a deposit of 2000 on 13-01-2023  
**And** a withdrawal of 500 on 14-01-2023  
**When** she prints her bank statement  
**Then** she would see

```
date       || credit  || debit  || balance
14/01/2023 ||         || 500.00 || 2500.00
13/01/2023 || 2000.00 ||        || 3000.00
10/01/2023 || 1000.00 ||        || 1000.00
```

### User Stories

```
As a user
So that I can add money to my account
I would like to be able to make a deposit 

As a user
So that I can withdraw money from my account
I would like to be able to withdraw a specified amount 

As a user
So that I can keep track of my transactions
I would like to be able to print my bank statement showing deposits, withdrawls and dates

As a user
So that I know how much money I have
I would like my bank statement to show my balance after each transaction
```

## Self-assessment

Once you have completed the challenge and feel happy with your solution, here's a form to help you reflect on the quality of your code: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Q-NnqVObbGLDHxlvbUfeAC7yBCf3eCjTmz6GOqC9Aeo/edit

## Approach and Reflection

My first step to approach the test was to fully read through and understand what is being asked in the outline given. I think that converting the criteria into user stories can really help with this step of the process.

I also used this time to create a brief diagram of what classes and methods I think might be needed and what each one might require and do. For this tech test, I decided that a good start would be to have the Account class, with 3 methods: deposit (to add funds), withdrawal (to remove funds), and show_statement (to keep track of these transactions). I decided that I would approach the task by getting the core functionality down before refactoring and extracting each method into a class of their own.

![initial plan](./initial_plan.png "Initial Plan")

By creating the above plan, I was able to think through what I would want each of my methods to achieve and what they would need to do this. I initially expected 'deposit' and 'withdrawal' to have 1 argument each (the amount), but I soon realised that in order for the 'show_statement' method to have a date linked to a transaction. I would likely need to pass this as a second argument to the 'deposit' and 'withdrawal' methods. I decided that unless stated, I would have a default value of today's date.

Once I had the deposit and withdrawal methods test driven, the next step was to create the 'show_statement' function which included the current balance for all transactions up to that point. I was difficult at this point to get my head around how to format my test compared to my expected outcome of the method so this took some time to work through.

After acheiving the core functionality of the program, I wanted to extract the methods out into different classes to ensure that each class was reponsible for one aspect of functionality. My plan for predicted classes is below:

![class extraction](./class_extraction.png "Classes Plan")
